# Running Wishes

Running Wishes is a unique fundraising application meant to encourage sport practicing, by taking part to organised competitions. The purpose of the application is to raise money for **charity cases**, for example for children with special needs that are part of an association. The money for **donations** come from bought tickets (by the participants) to each competition on the platform and also from sponsors. Each competition collaborates with **sponsors** that contribute with a fixed amount of money in order to raise the budget available for further donations. From a competition's total raised money, an amount of 2% is redirected throuought a donation to the charity case that needs it the most. As more participants enroll to a certain competition, the donation budget raises. Though, we need to mention that once enrolled to a competition, a participant can not withdraw and can not receive back the money from the ticket. As for the sponsors, they can abandon the collaboration with a competition and, in this case, the competition needs to have its donation budget updated, as it will not benefit of those sponsoring funds anymore.

A **charity person** needs a certain amount of money for solving their special need and with each donation received, the raised sum will be updated and the person will be closer to fulfilling their wish. The donation will be directed to that person that has raised the smaller amount of money compared to the needed fund. In case a charity person is requested for deletion, than all related donations will also be removed. 

Each charity person is registred to an **association**, meaning that one association can supervise one or more charity cases, without limitation. However, once enrolled to an association, the person can not be updated to belong to another association without special reasons. This means that a person can be transferred to another association only when their association is going to be deleted. In this scenario, if an association is requested to be deleted, all associated persons will be transferred to the first in list association. If there are no existent associations left, then the charity cases will be removed, along with the donations that were referred to them. If an association doesn't have charity cases enrolled to, if it needs to be deleted, this will happen without any special mentions. 
As a person receives **donations**, the competition that has forwarded the donations has to update its fundrasing budget. A donation can be made as long as the budget allows, and if there are less funds to be donated than expected, than the donation will be made with that sum of money. However, if no more funds exist, then no donation is made and an exception message is shown as _"All donation funds are consumed! Donation not possible!"_.

As for the **participants**, they can enroll to as many competitions as they want, with update possible. That means that when a competitor is created, the competitions list can be empty at first and updated later. If a participant attempts to update the list of competitions to which he paid with less competitions, then an exception occurs, announcing that _"The participant can not withdraw from a competition!"_. However, if the participant hasn't already enrolled to a competition and a request is made for his deletion, then the request is allowed.

About **competitions**, when they are created, the lists of donations, participants and sponsors are by default empty, but the sport practiced needs to be mentioned. Update of the competition means changing only the name or the location. When a delete of the competition is requested, the collaborations with the sponsors need to be deleted also, but not the sponsors themselves and the same logic happens also with participants. However, if a competition has already made donations, then the competition can not be deleted anymore, as the money are being transferred.

At a competition can be performed only one **sport** and, of course, a sport can be practiced at one or many competitions. An update on the sport is not necessary and thus, it is not implemented. Also, deletion of a sport is not allowed, as it will determine the deletion of most application logic. If a sport would have been deleted and it was practiced to one or many competitions with donations already made, then the deletion would not have been valid. In this case, it is better for the business logic to let only the creation and retrieval of sport information be implemented.


# Users

The application can be used by people with two different roles: user or administrator. Taking into consideration the role of the person who logins on the application, one or more actions are allowed within their role. A normal user can only enroll to different sport competitions, in order to help people in need. Also, a user can also see what sports are practiced, what competition exists and their sponsors and also what donations are made to each charity case available, in order to have a perspective of the platform's use. The donations for the charity cases are made by the competitions, each competition being able to make as many donations as the fundraising budget allows. Each action of creating, updating and deleting upon any other entity is permitted only by the administrator.

# Further development

As for the moment, the application does not have a front-end interface implemented, and this will be the first goal for the future. Apart from this, it would be beneficial for the community of the application if more payment methods would be available and also integrated within the business logic. 
At last, as the **Running Wishes charity platform** is an innovative idea, it would be of a very much help for people in need if implemented at a real scale.
